--- 
layout: post 
title: "iOS UI Programming Start"
--- 

##UI Programming Start on iOS -- WORK IN PROGRESS - NOT DONE

I try to make basic UI programming as painless as possible.  I prefer to spend time on more interesting programming tasks.  It is much more fun to manipulate camera output or articulate the design for threading or other systems concepts.

A UI Screen in iOS can be created entirely in code or via .xib or .storyboard xml files.  [This is a video of a debate on that issue.](http://www.raywenderlich.com/51992/storyboards-vs-nibs-vs-code-the-great-debate) Frankly, I find that there is room for all three methods, and I am preferring to make a few small storyboard files.  Note that Apple prefers that we use storyboards.  [In this video about the Facebook build process, the speaker mentioned that they wrote the UI for their app entirely in code.](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I5RqcYzrY4Y&feature=youtu.be&t=15m20s)

I am skipping many steps that I will write later.

This is a way to bring up the controller for a storyboard named Profile_iPhone.xib from an action event in a GUI.

	ProfileViewController * profileViewController = [[UIStoryboard storyboardWithName:@"Profile_iPhone" bundle:nil] instantiateInitialViewController];
	[self presentViewController:profileViewController animated:YES completion:nil];

This is a way to bring up the controller for a xib named Login_iPhone.xib from the AppDelete didFinishLaunchingWithOptions method:

	self.loginViewController = [[LoginViewController alloc] initWithNibName:@"Login_iPhone" bundle:nil];
	self.window.rootViewController = self.loginViewController;
	[self.window makeKeyAndVisible];

I have a lot more to write and explain - and understand.  I assume no one sees this yet.
